>> Hello, everyone out there on the broadcast.
Welcome, welcome. Thank you for joining us.
It's great to have you here. Super excited to have you watching the live stream.
If you want to comment on stuff we're talking about,
please put it in the live comment,
the live chat, and we'll try to make it part of the show.
Yeah, with that said, Leon,
you about ready to kick this off?
>> Yeah, let's do this.
>> All right. Leon, welcome to Talk Python to Me.
>> Thank you. Thanks for having me on.
>> Yeah, it's great to have you on.
You're doing such interesting work in the community,
and I'm excited to just give you a chance to share what you're doing with the world.
It's cool what's going on over at Python Discord,
and it's a lot bigger than I think people realize.
>> Yeah. Especially the last year,
it's completely taken off.
It's quadrupled in size over the last year.
>> Wow.
>> That's, we have 150,000 users now,
100 members of staff,
and we're involved in all sorts of conferences
and helping out in the ecosystem overall.
I think it's starting to become a big deal.
>> Yeah, I would say.
>> I'm really excited to be part of it.
>> Yeah, I would say that's fantastic.
Now, before we get into the main topic,
let's hear a little bit about you and your background.
How did you get into programming in Python?
>> Yeah. It's an interesting story.
When I was six, my grandpa bought me my first computer,
and he was like an autodidact.
He was an engineer,
a petroleum engineer, and he learned all sorts of stuff on his own time.
He wanted me to get into computers,
and I started learning a little bit,
but I never picked up programming because
the consensus in the community where I grew up was like
that programming was this thing that you needed academics to do.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> You needed that education,
you needed that university background, whatever.
It was math, see, it was complicated.
It's not something that a young person could do.
Growing up in the '90s,
that was a little bit more true then than it is now,
but it still wasn't true.
I went a different way and I ended up in music.
I started studying music when I was a little older,
and I gave up on my dreams of being a computer engineer.
I even dropped out of school,
never finished my education,
wanted to be a full-time musician.
That didn't work out. Turns out,
it's not very well-paid and you really have to get lucky.
>> Yeah. It's a tough one, right?
It's fantastic if you can make it,
but it's not easy.
>> I gave it a good try. I learned a lot.
But ultimately, I went back to IT.
I did customer support,
I did operations, stuff like that.
My sweetheart, my love,
she got me this book.
This was 14 years ago.
As almost like a joke for my birthday,
she got me a C++ book.
I don't know what to get you,
but you like computers, right?
I had this reaction like,
"You don't know what you've done.
This isn't for me. I can't do anything with this.
This is for people who have the academics."
All these preconceptions flared up,
and I just felt like it was stupid.
But she insisted I give it a try,
and I read this book on a plane ride.
It was simultaneously an epiphany that,
"Holy shit, I can actually do this.
I like this. This is logger."
At the same time, I was pissed
because I felt like my whole life,
people have been lying to me,
saying that I couldn't do this,
and that I had disregarded it.
I was 21.
I could have started 10 years before that.
- Yeah, I've been wasting my time
because I had this misconception, right?
- I think a lot of people labor under that misconception
that programming is something that you can't easily,
like that's something that people do
after a university degree or whatever.
But that's just really not the case, especially today.
- Yeah, especially today.
There's so many resources.
Like you talk about getting a book in the '90s.
And I got, I can't remember what,
my C++ book I got in the '90s, but it was fantastic.
But it was just a book.
And if you got stuck, well, you read the chapter again.
You know what I mean?
And that was it, right?
It was like really hard.
Now there's YouTube, there's online courses, video courses,
there's communities like Python Discord.
The support that is there is much,
so all this stuff that you're talking about,
it's more true now than ever.
- Yes, exactly.
And I guess I've, you know,
in my involvement in Python Discord,
I'm trying to be part of letting people understand
that that's true, like being that support system
to help people get into programming,
even though they're young and inexperienced,
that it is possible.
You can come hang out with us.
We can help you get into Python,
learn how, you know, take your first steps into development.
I think that's important to be there.
'Cause I, yeah, I'm a little upset
that I didn't take that path earlier.
- I didn't have quite the same experience,
but I had a similar experience where I thought,
oh, this is interesting, it would be cool,
but there's no way I can do that.
- Yeah.
When did you start?
- I started doing C++ programming
my senior year in college for a research project
because I had kind of been good with computers,
but I didn't really consider myself a programmer.
So I just, you know, I pursued other things
like science and whatnot and math,
and I just finally got into it.
And the thing that really made me realize,
like this is something I really like,
is I remember working on these research projects,
and it was a math research project,
but also required a lot of visualization and programming.
And I would be really excited
when I'm doing the programming part,
then I have to get some programming math.
Like I just solve some of the math problems in code.
And I'm like, oh, this part is kind of boring.
Okay, back to the program.
I'm like, oh, wait a minute,
the part that I'm supposed to be here for
is the part I like least.
And the programming is just super awesome.
Yeah, so later as well,
but yeah, it's better late than never, right?
- Yeah, no, that's sort of my story as well.
Like when I picked up, I didn't really like C++,
I learned C, I didn't really like that either.
I got a little bit into like game programming.
I looked at C#, later Unity,
and none of it really clicked with me.
But when I found Python, it was like,
Angel Chorus, like finally I found my home.
It was like the wool being lifted off my eyes,
like I found my thing.
And I started putting it in every facet,
every corner of my life.
Like I was working in,
I was an ops engineer at the time,
working for an ISP.
And I just started automating all of the boring stuff.
I was like Excel stuff.
- You get so much joy out of that,
'cause it's those things that just grind on you every day.
And then you're like, wait a minute,
that can happen instantly and automatic.
That can go away.
- And then after doing that for a couple of years,
I realized that I was having way more fun
than writing the code,
then I wasn't doing anything else in my job.
I needed to just like pivot.
- Yeah.
- But it's hard when you don't have that,
any education, no real experience to find that first job.
I applied like 50 places, I think,
before someone really gave me a chance.
And they only gave me a chance
because they were like, yeah,
but we'll give you a tough technical interview.
It'll be like several stages.
You'll have to write a whole project and send it in to us.
This will take a week to finish.
But I got through it and they were impressed
and they gave me a chance.
And once you get that first job,
at least here in Norway, where I'm situated,
they basically throw jobs at you
if you have a couple of years experience.
- I think that's pretty true in general.
I think it's true in the US as well,
where that first step is such a big one.
But if you can get into the industry,
then like, oh, you know what you're doing,
then all these opportunities open up.
So I think anyone who's out there listening
who feels frustrated, like,
oh, it's so hard to get that first job.
Like that is the hardest career step
you're ever gonna make, right?
'Cause after that, it's just,
it's so much smoother and easier.
- I think especially for people who are in other jobs
and they're looking to like change into development,
it's tough.
But once you have that foot in the door,
it's amazing.
Like I could pretty much change jobs today
if I wanted to, to any number of other things.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- But I won't because I love my job.
- Yeah, so the other question I always got asked
at the beginning of the show,
it's 'cause it's really interesting to hear the perspective
that people are coming from.
- Yeah.
- Are you a DevOps person?
Are you a scientist?
Are you a web developer?
So what do you do these days?
- So I'm working for a company called Dignio
and we're a med tech company
focused on remote care is the technical term for it.
So essentially we're, okay, the pitch is,
did you know that hospitals and governments in general
spend like a significant amount of their budget
dealing with chronically ill patients
who make up a minority of the actual patients
who are being treated?
So we're spending like most of our money
on the fewest of the people.
- It's like the last one year of life is so expensive
compared to the prior, you know, N minus one.
- Yeah, and then you have this shift going on
in certain countries where like the age groups are shifting
so there are more older people
and you need way more elder care.
And it's expensive because the elderly
often have chronic diseases.
And again, that takes up an enormous amount of resources.
So the main thing is they keep having to go to doctors,
they have to go to hospitals to get like simple checkups
and measurements.
And so our solution is, well, they should do that from home.
They shouldn't have to constantly be traveling around
to places to like get their blood pressure measured
or whatever.
We can do that via Bluetooth and an app.
And then you can just deliver all of the metrics
to the doctor and they can contact them
if something changes, if it looks bad, right?
Like so that they get the treatment when they need it,
but they don't have to constantly be wasting their own time
and the, well, the government's resources
essentially on taking the bus for four hours
to get to the nearest whatever, it's stupid.
So we're trying to solve that.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
- And right now we're part of the COVID-19 thing.
I mean, remote care plays a big role there.
We wanna keep people out of hospitals obviously
and prevent infection from spreading.
So having them be, you know,
they're doing their measurements at home,
they're reporting their symptoms
and taking their own temperature measurements
and stuff like that.
And the COVID-19 teams can just monitor them remotely.
So we're working with the NHS in the UK,
we're working here in Norway with the capital
and with a bunch of hospitals.
We're trying to get deeper into China.
It's really exciting work.
And I think that, you know, like ultimately
it's important work.
It makes me sleep well at night.
- Yeah, yeah.
You're legitimately helping people, right?
- Yeah, right.
I think ultimately we're gonna save lives.
- At some point you inevitably save a life
because you're helping relieve pressure
from these critical systems.
And maybe that's especially true during a pandemic.
You have to like keep the capacity open at hospitals
and so on like.
- So I often think about what changes are going to stick
after the pandemic is over or reduced
and what's just gonna go back to normal, right?
And I think that that kind of remote care stuff
is going to stick.
I think it's gonna be one of the things like,
why didn't we just do this before?
Right, you really don't need to come in to say,
are you still feeling fine?
Yeah, I'm feeling fine.
Here's my measurements that my wearable has been collecting.
Yeah, it looks like you're fine, right?
- And we've been around for 10 years.
Remote care has been around since the early 2010s,
but it's like, as soon as the pandemic hit, it exploded.
You've seen companies like Zoom
and all of these people who specialize
in having your doctor check up remotely.
They're exploding.
They're being propelled five, 10 years into the future
in terms of like growth and opportunity.
And yeah, that's not gonna go away
after the pandemic calms down.
We're here to stay now.
And I know firsthand that municipalities
and governments are buying in,
like not just like temporary relief for COVID-19,
but more permanent solutions for remote care and monitoring.
So this is definitely one of the changes we're gonna see,
I think, stick around.
- And Python's powering some of that?
- Python's powering most of that.
Our whole backend is Python, Flask.
Our infrastructure as code is mostly in Python
and also a lot of Terraform.
I've been involved across the whole stack.
We also use Angular for our front end.
We have Swift and Android and Kotlin.
So there's a big stack,
but Python is at its heart running the backend
that talks to all of the different platforms
that their services use.
- Cool.
- So-- - Yeah, yeah, very neat.
- Yeah.
- Sounds like a fun place to work.
I was just gonna say,
before we move on to the main topic though,
there is one other thing that I think you are
quite notable for in the recent days.
- Yeah, I know what you're gonna say.
- Yeah, yeah, so you did this beautiful song
called the Pep8 song.
And look at that, it's almost got 30,000 views on YouTube,
which is pretty amazing.
I'll put the link into the live stream
for people to check out.
But yeah, what was the inspiration behind that?
That was really well received.
That was a team effort, right?
- That was a team effort.
One of my admins, Daniel Brown, came to me with an idea.
He said, "You know, wouldn't it be funny
"if we did a version of Mad World,
"but instead of saying Mad World, you sing Pep8,
"and the whole song is just about..."
So he just gave me the idea, and it was beautiful.
I was like, "Yes, we need to do it immediately."
I just got started.
I got some people involved in helping out,
finish everything up.
And my sweetheart filmed it.
So it was great.
And I worked with, we have an outreach team
at Python Discord with Sebastian Seff in the lead,
and he helped get it out there.
And I think we really managed to somehow get it out there.
I mean, this could have been a thing that nobody ever saw.
- Yeah, yeah.
There's probably a lot of great stuff
that got created and posted and went nowhere, right?
- Yeah, for sure.
No, this was fun.
I can't really take much credit
'cause it's just a cover of an existing song,
but I've been making music since I was a teenager.
Like I said, I tried to be a musician.
So I cherish every occasion I get to actually sit down
and make something fun.
And like, especially when you can share it with a community
and they like it.
So most of the music I write, nobody will ever hear,
or at least very few people.
So this is just, yeah, it's been really fun.
- Yeah, well, if you haven't heard the song,
I'll put the link in the show notes.
People should definitely check it out
'cause it's all about the, you know,
don't use try except pass.
Here's what you do with comments.
All the stuff that you learn about in PEP8
to write good Python code, but musical form.
Isn't it bizarre how much music connects with your memory?
You know, like my daughters, when they were younger,
they would sing songs, they would know every word.
There was this biology teacher who rapped
the energy cycle of the cell, like mitochondria and all that.
And like, she would study for biology
by just listening to the rap about mitochondria.
And you've got "Hamilton," the musical,
which so many people listened to and learned about,
like detailed American history,
which they would think was so boring,
but then it's in music form,
so they now love it, right?
That's weird, right?
- The "Animaniac" song with all the states
and the periodic table thing.
- Yep.
- Right, all of these are examples of,
yeah, it's a vehicle for learning.
I think it actually works.
I love the PEP8, it's really dear to my heart.
(laughing)
It's one of these documents, I think,
that like it so perfectly explains
sort of the culture of Python.
And it's well-written, it's easy to read.
You should all read it too,
not just like listen to the song,
you should go read the PEP8.
If you haven't read it, it's very, very edible.
- Yeah, it's like the operating instructions
for Python code.
- Yeah.
- Here's how you should get started, for sure.
But the main thing that we're here to talk about today
is Python Discord.
- That's right.
- So Discord is something kind of like Slack,
but more focused on the gaming community traditionally.
Why don't you just tell people what Discord is real quick,
and then open up Discord.
- Yeah, so they started out as sort of a competitor
for stuff like TeamSpeak,
and they wanted to be that gaming platform.
But then they've sort of pivoted
because they've attracted communities
that are way outside of that core market.
And now recently they've rebranded
to being just like a place
for people to have good conversations,
like that local community feel,
like you have a sewing club
or your local swim team, get a Discord.
And it really is a solid platform.
They have very high quality video conversations
and every feature that Slack has, and then some.
- Yeah, what I really like is you can just go in there
and you could be chatting in a room,
or you could just say, click a button,
and like, let's make this a video call.
And then it is, right?
- That's right.
- It's really easy to sort of jump
through the different mediums of communication there.
- But I think the thing that they nailed that Slack isn't,
I mean, Slack is really intended
for these like small corporate teams
so that you can have your own space.
Whereas Discord is more for like open communities, right?
So they want more people to join in.
So it's got this discoverability aspect.
You can grow your community as big as you want on Slack.
Technically, after you have a certain amount of messages,
they tell you, well, now you have to like pay
to unlock the content in this channel.
And that's not suitable if you have 100,000 people
in the community and they're charging eight bucks a head.
Like it doesn't work.
So Slack's great for your work chat,
but it's not really suitable for a massive community
like Python Discord.
So it's a really, really great place for that.
A lot of tech platforms have moved to Discord as well.
- Interesting.
- The Reactiflux people, that's a massive server.
Palettes projects, the people who made the flask
and click, they're on Discord as well.
Many of the game frameworks like Piglet
and Pygame was there up until recently.
I think they may have disbanded that server,
but yeah, there's a lot of tech there happening.
- Yeah, another thing that you talked about
that's really interesting here is there's a whole way
to program it with Python that allows you
to sort of make it better, like bots and other things, right?
- That's right.
It's quite accessible to Python through this framework
called Discord.py.
So it's made by this guy called Danny
and it's fairly easy to work with.
It's fully asynchronous.
So in that sense, it's a little high level.
You have to understand the async await syntax.
Not everyone learns that first day of Python,
but once you get there, it's very nice.
It uses type annotations in a clever way
to convert the input that you send to the bot
to something useful like a user or a channel.
It uses lots of decorators.
So it's actually quite a beautiful solution to that problem
and you can make very, very scalable bots
that can be on thousands of communities at the same time,
interacting with like millions of users
without it falling apart.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
Joe Banks out there in the live stream says,
"At Python Discord, we'd hit the Slack limit
of around a thousand, sorry, 10,000 messages
in less than 10 hours."
So yeah, that's not a great long-term solution, is it?
- No, it wouldn't work for us.
Joe Banks, of course, being one of the co-owners
of Python Discord along with Sebastian Sepp.
- Yeah, yeah, very cool.
So how'd this get started?
Tell us about the community.
- Yeah, so about four years ago,
I met Joe in this community.
At that time, it had 200 users
and it was a very different place.
It wasn't like we didn't,
nobody there really took it seriously.
It was just a small server of people who were into Python.
But then I guess there were a couple of us
who started really seeing the potential
that this had to be a great place to learn and to teach.
And I've always believed that teaching
is a fantastic way for me to cement my skills,
to improve my own skills.
So I've always tried to spend a lot of time
teaching and tutoring
because I thought it made me a better programmer as well.
And it's a nice, wholesome thing to do.
- Yeah, I totally agree.
I think it does.
- And I'm kind of sold that
to a lot of more experienced users.
You should spend your time here
because it's gonna make you a better developer
and because it's a nice thing to do.
And we started getting more and more of those people
who were into that culture.
I think at that time, I felt like I wanted to create
something that was in opposition to my experience.
In the 90s, I spent a lot of time on IRC
and IRC was not a nice place.
It was very toxic.
Generally, if you asked a question,
you were told it was a stupid question
and you shouldn't have asked it.
And you were just sort of expected to know everything.
And I think that people, young people coming into that,
meeting that kind of toxicity on their first day,
they could be discouraged from ever trying it seriously.
So I think it's important to have a community
where you're welcome with open arms,
where we encourage stupid questions
and hold your hand through them.
- Yeah, and that's one of the things you said
you're really trying to curate there at Python Discord
is having a welcoming place for beginners, right?
- Yes, we've curated that with, I should say,
extreme prejudice.
So we've been extremely harsh in getting rid
of any kind of toxic element
and just rooting out anything that didn't fit
into our idea of the culture.
So the culture is wholesomeness,
like full blast wholesomeness.
And we just wanna be the nicest little community
on the internet where nobody's allowed
to say anything mean or disrespectful
because that just doesn't have any place
in your first impressions of learning to code.
I think that should be a nice and warm experience.
It's harder now that we're so big,
but back then it was easy.
I could read every single message
that was posted into the community.
I could personally moderate everything that happened.
And I did for a long while.
But then as we grew bigger,
we had to sort of build a set of staff members
who agreed with our cultural values, our core values.
And we started really growing because we were,
it was important just to reach out to more people, I guess.
And we really believed in what we were doing.
So we were doing creative stuff.
Like we looked for partnerships
with other types of communities.
We even found a different Python community
that were roughly the same size as us.
And then I had a meeting with them
and convinced them to merge with us,
which isn't really a feature in Discord.
So what we actually did was we just mothballed
the other community, removed every channel,
left a link to ours,
and tried to funnel all of their users into our community.
- If you come here and you find it empty,
this is where everyone's gone.
- And then we took their staff members
and invited them into our staff.
Some of them are still there.
Some of them are fantastic.
Actually, one of the owners, Sebastian, came from there.
And then, yeah, so we've done that.
We partnered with the subreddit, r/python, quite early.
Got in touch with Andrew Phoenix over there
who runs the show and got involved there.
And I think we got a lot of traffic via Reddit.
We had some pretty good SEO search engines.
- Reddit's really interesting, right?
There's a lot of cool stuff happening
with Python on Reddit,
but also Reddit can be a little bit harsh.
Like the people there can be a little bit rough
for various reasons.
So it's a bit of a mixed bag.
You gotta be careful, right?
- You do.
Yeah, but I think the thing that happens, though,
when people found us through,
really through just Googling us,
but they would Google, not specifically for us,
they would Google Python Discord,
thinking, "Hey, is there a Discord for Python?"
But we decided, "Hey, what would be good
"is if we just double down on that
"and use that as our name,
"get the domain pythondiscord.com, put it everywhere."
Like if we are Python Discord,
then that's the thing people Google,
they're gonna find us.
And that really worked, I think,
was sort of a creative way to get our names out there.
So yeah, we started really attracting people,
and then we just kept partnering up with people.
We got listed on python.org/community.
- Nice.
Yeah, there's a couple of people out in the livestream
comments on the community thing.
So Robert Robinson says, "The community's the best thing
"for beginners to advanced developers."
Three OS says, "There's no room for toxicity."
I think that really is great.
Robert also, "Not as harsh as Stack Overflow,"
which is interesting.
But how much do you think that the culture of Python itself
matched with the programmer community
that you guys are running?
Say like if it was Java or C++,
do you think they have slightly different backgrounds?
Do you think it makes a difference?
- It does, because these are the people that we attract.
The staff members, they come from a place of understanding
that Python has this kind of culture.
And I think that we would have attracted
a different set of staff members
if Python didn't have such an inclusive culture.
So by Python establishing,
and they've done that all on their own,
they've been amazing at building a really strong culture
for Python, I think.
And inclusivity has been like a really strong
fighting point for them, I think.
So that means that when we find these advanced Python users
who are already renowned in their own way,
they're like full-time Python developers,
they're speakers at conferences, they're library maintainers.
They're really nice people, generally.
Like most of the people I meet in this community,
they're already on board with what we're trying to do.
So there's this synergy between the Python culture
and our culture that's really played in our favor, I think.
- Yeah, I would think so as well.
I mean, there's the Brett Cannon quote,
like I came for the language,
stayed for the community type of thing, right?
- Exactly.
- Yeah.
What have you done to try to keep that zen of that community
as you've grown to over 100,000 participants?
- So the main thing that,
'cause now that we're getting so big, we have a big staff
and running a big staff of 100 people is work.
We have to start treating it almost like a startup.
So being a staff member at Python Discord is a job.
Like it's real work.
We have meetings, we have several meetings.
So we have meetings with the admins, with the leads.
We have an all hands meeting.
We have project meetings for certain projects
that we're pursuing.
We have a roadmap that we follow very carefully
and plan out with the admins.
Many of the admins have a domain that they look after.
So like this guy is responsible for moderation
and one person on maybe events.
And that means that there's a bit of ownership.
And through the entire staff,
we've been like really actively perpetuating
this focus on culture, right?
And they all really agree with it anyway.
So it's not like a hard sell,
but by motivating our staff to follow that sort of ethos,
it bleeds out to the rest of the community naturally
in everything that we do there.
Like I can't personally follow up all the stuff that we do,
but it naturally happens through,
I guess, a form of leadership.
- Yeah, yeah, fantastic.
So 3OS says, "I joined Python Discord for a question.
"I'm still here for almost a year later.
"Don't regret a single day."
That's awesome, yeah.
- It's really nice to hear stuff like this.
- Yeah.
So I think it sounds like a super cool community.
People can go in there and talk about different topics,
I imagine, right?
Like if you wanna talk about Flask,
there's a Flask section you wanna talk about.
Getting started, there's probably something for that.
- Yeah, so we've organized it so that
there's a topical channel for a bunch of different topics
that are basically like domains.
So we have like an async channel,
we have web development where you can ask,
sure, Flask.
Even if you have a JavaScript question,
you're welcome to ask it there.
We've got a place for game development frameworks,
that kind of stuff.
And there's also some general channels
where you can talk about just about anything.
And then beyond that,
for people who just are looking for help,
we built a system on top of Discord
that's kind of unique to deliver help channels,
almost like a ticketing system.
So you come in and you claim a channel of your own,
a help channel,
and then in that channel, you can ask anything you want.
And then you will be assigned sort of
as the owner of that channel
and people will come and help you.
- Yeah, and you said that with this many people,
you have to do like sort of a load balancing type thing
to make sure that people can have some help
but that it doesn't get overwhelmed
and sort of partition it.
You wanna talk about that a little bit?
- It's been challenging.
We used to have just like,
oh, they're generic help, that was a channel.
- Now it's just streaming by like telling a log, yeah.
- Suddenly it was like three channels
because there were so many people at the same time
and you couldn't, nobody could ask anything.
And then it grew to, I think, eight at its most.
And we were just like, we can't keep scaling like this.
We need to figure out a better solution.
So we came up with this rotating channel claiming system.
It's all run on the thing I mentioned earlier, discord.py.
We wrote all the code for this.
Members of the community volunteered,
you know, like there are tens of thousands of lines of code
in our bot that's directly responsible
for running the community,
running all these systems on top of the vanilla setup
that discord gives us.
It's a really powerful thing, you know,
when you run a community full of programmers
that uniquely you can then put them to work
doing all this stuff that other types of communities
would never be able to do
'cause they just don't have that amount of, right?
So many creative and wonderful people
are willing to invest their free time
to make something awesome for that.
I really, I'm lucky to be surrounded
by so many active contributors.
I mean, we've had dozens of people help build this.
- Yeah, I do think that having this programming skill,
it's almost like being a magician, right?
You can think of this idea and you're like,
you know, I can make that happen.
- Yeah.
- I just, I got to think about it a little bit more
and then it'll exist.
And there's not many other things like that.
- No, you're right.
So much of the creative stuff,
actually you've got to,
eventually the rubber meets the road.
You've got to create a thing, right?
Like if you're a chemist or you're an engineer,
like you can create, you can imagine things,
but eventually they got to get built.
But for programmers,
it's just sort of more thinking until it exists.
And it's really cool to see like communities
putting that to you.
So like, oh, I have this idea.
What if the bot could do this?
Well, you know, here's the source code, make it do that.
- Yeah, it's like a superpower.
I think one person who knows how to code in a community,
it can be like a wizard who makes stuff happen.
And I have a hundred wizards.
So like I can do whatever I want pretty much.
It's amazing.
It really makes the difference.
I think that's that little extra cherry on top
that makes this community really shine.
- Yeah, well, and the fact that Discord has an API
and doesn't try to like lock it off
and make it impossible to sort of do extra stuff, right?
- Right.
I mean, it's not by any means trivial,
but there are good packages out there
that abstract all the pain away,
or most of the pain anyway.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, super cool.
So one of the things that you all have been doing
is you've been running different kinds of events.
Do you want to tell us about some of the events
and things you've done and maybe we'll do in the future?
- So I think a lot of people come to us with a question
or to find some help or some guidance,
but then we want them to stay.
And one of the ways that we try to do that
is to always have something going on.
And the events is our way of like having an activity
always happening in the community.
So we started with, we created a second bot
that was just for fun.
And then we had like monthly events,
like a Valentine's event or Halloween event,
where we would invite people to solve these simple problems.
So for the Halloween event, we would say,
okay, I want you to write a spooky movie recommender.
It's just a function, right?
And so we provide the bot and the infrastructure
for the bot to run on.
You just write a command for the bot.
It's really just a function that returns a spooky movie.
That's fairly easy for people to do.
And so we get people willing to take on that task.
And then we filled up this bot with all of these things.
So every month we would have a theme
and then we would get more people involved in that.
But here's the tricky part is we would force them
to commit it to GitHub.
It would go through reviews.
We were kind of harsh reviewers.
Sometimes we will give a proper review,
but we do it in a very educational way, I think,
where we explain very clearly why something needs to change,
if it needs to change.
We have a continuous integration systems
and continuous deployment set up on all of these things
so that the code has to lint properly,
has to get through, has to match the PEP-8 basically,
and run tests and all this stuff.
So it sounds easy when you start off, yeah,
you're just writing a simple function
to return a spooky movie.
But then actually we're stealth educating these people
on how to work on an open source framework, right?
Like inside of a--
Right, teaching them all the engineering workflow
stuff of linting, CI, GitHub, all that kind of stuff.
And I think that that stuff is amazing to know if you want
to go out there and work in the field.
You have to know these things.
But there aren't that many places online
that will try to teach you those places.
Yeah.
Well, it's also all the difference between,
is this a real programmer or someone
who just has learned a little bit about the language, right?
Whenever I was doing interviews, you
could always sort of tell, is this person really
in the community?
Do they kind of know the moving part?
You know what I mean?
Because I would interview people,
and they would sometimes just make up stuff that they know.
I'm like, you don't actually know this, do you?
So you can tell that this is not a thing, right?
And I think having those skills-- it depends how you get
into programming, but a lot of people come into Python.
They don't come through the, I went to Carnegie Mellon
for four years.
They come through the, I got inspired.
I got a book, or I got some kind of thing where I started
learning programming, and I've been mostly on my own,
but I'm trying to get into the world of programming.
And no one tells you you need to learn
about continuous integration.
Right, exactly.
Most people, right?
Or unit testing frameworks, or what have you.
I actually, we do the same thing when we interview for my job.
We often focus on the soft skills.
We try to, like, if we can determine whether someone
writes a good commit message, that tells you a lot about them,
even though it's not strictly the thing
that we're actually looking for.
We're looking for talented programmers,
but the two things are slightly linked in a way.
One indicates the other.
But yeah, so that was our first sort of,
our first step into events.
And then it grew from there.
I had this idea.
I started a code jam, and I wanted
it to be a unique thing, because again, a lot of people
do code jams, and they're mostly game jams.
Give us a quick, what's the elevator pitch?
What's a code jam?
So a Python Discord code jam, or just a code jam in general?
In general.
In general, it's you have a week.
You have to solve a problem.
You don't necessarily know what the problem is
before you start solving it.
And maybe you have to solve it within a specific context,
so like a framework or a language, something like that.
And then afterwards--
Like use React to build a game, a 2D scroller game in a week,
something like that maybe.
Something like that.
And so we wanted to do a spin on this,
to activate our users to do something fun for a week.
But again, I'm trying to do something
that nobody else is doing.
So my spin was you have to do it with a team of strangers,
not on your own, not with some people you know.
You have to get out of that safety net, out of your comfort
zone, and solve a problem in a setting
that you might see in an open source project or in a job.
Yeah, because one of the challenges can be there
might be these people who've done these before, right?
Like these groups of people, we all go to college together.
We were roommates.
Now we just go do these events because they're fun,
and we still do them together.
But if there's a tight knit group of four people that say,
OK, you do the database.
I'll do the UI.
You do the back end.
Go, right?
That's not the same thing as a couple of people.
I want to be part of it too.
We'll find some random folks to meet up, right?
So you're kind of trying to equalize that a little.
Yeah, they would come in and annihilate everyone.
And I want people to be uncomfortable.
I want them to do something hard and to come out
of it having learned how to overcome those challenges,
right?
So that's the pitch is that we team you up with some people
you've never met.
We give you a framework.
Let's say you have to write a Django app.
And then on the day you start, we tell you, oh,
and by the way, it has to be thematic of climate change.
Or we had one where we said that the theme was this app hates
you.
And so we ask people to make apps that hate you.
I think I've used some of those.
Super fun.
Yeah.
My favorite, I remember there was this one team.
They made a paint clone similar to MS Paint.
But all of the different tools were terrible in their own way.
So you would use the paintbrush, but it would drip paint
on top of the canvas.
How beautiful.
And the pencil, the tip would break.
And it would fall.
You'd have to constantly be like--
yeah, so each tool uniquely terrible.
Really fun.
Now, recently we had one where the theme
was early internet.
And we had a team that created sort of a Windows 98 or Windows
95 clone in Django.
And I was like, yeah, this is cool.
And it looked fairly nostalgic.
But then the actual thing inside of that Windows clone
was that there was a working browser.
And when you use the browser, they would intercept the HTML
and modify it to look like early internet.
They would pixelate the images or add filters and stuff
to make it look old and kind of broken.
It's really, really genuinely interesting.
And you could go to any page on the web.
Wow.
People do these amazing things within the limitations
we set for them.
It's really inspiring to watch some of the stuff.
We actually make some videos on our YouTube.
There are highlights videos.
Yeah, that's nostalgic.
There are highlight videos on our YouTube
that show off some of the projects
that people come up with.
We're going to release another one within a month or two
for the code gem that was last summer.
Yeah, that's really cool.
Yeah, we should link to those.
I think back to the early internet, gosh,
if you had modern tools and a modern tool chain,
you could just blow people's minds.
I mean, it was so bad.
It was so incredibly bad, right?
Just--
Yes.
Ah.
Yeah.
The Amazon ones are the absolute worst.
You should all go and look up what
Amazon looked like in its first iteration.
Hilariously bad.
Yeah, it's-- oh, my gosh.
Yeah, so these are some of the types of things you do, right?
These events.
Do you have any coming up?
We have-- oh, that's another one.
We've invited PyWeek, which is actually
a 15-year-old Python event, one of the oldest, probably
the longest-running game jam in the entire ecosystem.
We basically offered to take it into our fold
and help them advertise it, market it,
and to put it together because they were stretched
a little thin, maybe.
And Daniel Pope, who runs it currently, Maev, Lord Maev,
he's just become a father, I think.
He's quite busy with things.
That changes your perspective on free time.
Yeah.
Or it changes your free time.
He's a wonderful guy.
I really enjoyed working with him on the previous PyWeek
we ran last autumn.
And now we're probably going to help him put one together.
He's still running the show, but we help out
in every way we can.
So there's a PyWeek coming up sometime this spring.
I don't know if a date has been announced yet.
Then we have a Code Jam this summer.
And in October, we run the Hacktoberfest events.
December, we run Advent of Code together
with the Advent of Code staff.
There's basically something happening every couple months.
What do people do to participate?
How do they participate?
Well, if you're a member of the community,
if you type exclamation mark subscribe in the bot commands
channel, you will be subscribed to announcements.
We basically will ping you every time
something big is happening.
So we will always let you know.
There's also an event page on our website.
You can usually see major upcoming events
on the front page.
There's an events subpage there that has everything listed.
So it's fairly hard to miss if you're
a member of the community.
But yeah, the subscribe command for our bot,
that will make sure that you will definitely
be let know.
That's how we keep people informed.
Yeah, very cool.
Sounds like a lot of fun for people
to participate in these things.
Another thing that you did recently that was noteworthy
is you all hosted the core developer sprints.
Yeah, that was interesting.
I mean, obviously, we love the PSF, the Python Software
Foundation.
And we have a core developer on the staff as well.
Kyle Stanley, he's a core developer who works on AsyncIO.
He's great.
He's one of our moderators.
And so he got in touch with me and told me
that, well, because PyCon was canceled,
and usually they have this core dev sprint at PyCon,
they sit together for a week.
And they just work on like CPython stuff together.
I think a lot of people don't realize
that when PyCon fell victim to the pandemic like everything
has, that there's so much of that that happens.
You know, in open source, you could work for years
and never actually face to face have a conversation with someone
you're working with, right?
So a lot of those sprints, both for core developers in Python,
but also for Flask and Django and other groups
would have these get togethers where people
could come and contribute.
And yeah, that kind of fell by the wayside, right?
Yeah, I think that was a big--
a lot of people took it quite poorly.
I mean, that's like the highlight of their year.
Many of them-- if you're a core developer,
the PSF will pay your ticket to come and hang out with them
and do the core sprint.
And it's like this big event.
I would love to do that myself, sit down
with some of these smartest people.
I know, it'd be amazing.
I always consider PyCon my geek holiday.
It's like my chance to get away and just enjoy time
with my friends who I only see at conferences,
go to Goddard, have dinner and beer with them afterwards.
I've never been because I had to cross the Atlantic to get there.
But hopefully, one day.
So someday soon, hopefully.
Right, so they canceled that.
And so they were looking for an alternative way
because they needed to do the core dev sprint,
but obviously they had to do it remotely.
So they were looking into how they would host that.
And I just suggested to Kyle that if you guys are interested,
EuroPython did it on Discord recently.
And we could host you.
We could set up everything you need, all the channels,
take care of moderation.
If you want to reach out to the community or something,
we could put together a call or something like that.
And they were interested.
And eventually, they voted in favor of doing that.
So we had all the core developers, 40 of them
at least, hanging out with us.
And we left them--
I mean, they had their own sort of gated off
area of the community where they did this.
And we've done that for some of the other events,
like FOSDEM most recently.
We hosted their organizers and their talk, their speakers,
so that they have an area to be in without having
to go through the hassle of setting up their own community
and managing and administrating all of that.
Because it is work.
Yeah.
So what's that look like in practice?
They have their own channel.
Then they do screen share for the presentations.
Yeah.
We just set it up so that all they got to do is just join.
And then right at the top of the channel list
is just all the stuff that's relevant to them.
Nobody else can see it, just the organizers
and the members of that event.
So for them, it almost looks like we've just set up
a whole server just for them.
And then at the bottom, if they want to,
they can go and explore our public channels
and talk to the community.
And some of them did.
And there was a lot of really good interaction
with the other members of the community.
But if they want to and if they want privacy, which many of them
did, they can just stay in their own gated-off area.
That's been one way that we've been
able to give back to the ecosystem a little bit
and help out.
And of course, they also chose to have a Q&A that they
collected questions from the community.
And they wanted to do a stream.
And we put together the stream on YouTube for them.
It's available both on the PSF's own YouTube and on ours.
A full-length, hour-long, I think,
core developer Q&A from questions from the community.
Really, really interesting.
I highly recommend it.
Yeah, nice.
That's fantastic.
Yeah, it was really fun.
We really love the PSF.
We work with them on other stuff.
They're looking for help get their announcements out there.
We have quite a bit of reach by now, in part due to--
like our announcement channel, sure, it reaches our 150,000
members.
But there's also a feature where you can subscribe to--
you can put our announcements into your community.
And there's 2,000 communities right now
that sort of relay all of the announcements we make.
So then that reaches an additional--
I don't even know how many people.
And then we've got Twitter.
Does that push notifications out to other Discord communities
or some other types of communities?
Is it like Discord?
It's only Discord, yeah.
So there's 2,000 Discord communities.
Probably most of them are small, 10 people
who are friends or whatever kind of communities.
But there are some that are rather big.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, very cool.
Yeah, it seems like the community, like the core devs
and advanced channel, it's very nice.
Yeah, awesome.
Quite cool.
So I guess one other thing that we
could talk about that you guys are doing
is you have some open source stuff.
Like your bot, for example, is open source and so on.
You want to talk a little bit about some of the code?
Yeah, I mean, we have a lot of open source repositories.
And we try-- so this is about--
Python Discord has to be a great place for beginners
to discover programming and to get help and so on.
But it also needs to be a place that's engaging
for more advanced users.
And one of the ways that we're doing that is to try to provide
learning opportunities, even for people
who have years of experience with Python.
And one of the ways that you can improve, hone your skills
and get better is to work on exciting projects that
help the community.
So we've open sourced everything.
We're very transparent about how everything works.
And there's a whole bunch of projects from the bots.
There are three, four bots by now, I think.
No, three.
We've got the website, of course,
and some microservices that interact with the website.
Snackbox is an interesting one.
That's a completely sandboxed Python evaluation tool.
That's right, yeah.
So that we can have a command on the server
where people can run actual raw Python code without them
being able to destroy all our servers.
Because there is, of course, a risk associated with people--
Yeah, that's the danger of it.
You want to test this code out?
Click here.
Oh, wait, the code I'm trying to test
is subprocess launch such and such, or whatever.
Yeah, so we have several layers of sandboxing.
If it takes too long, or if it uses specific parts
of the standard library that might be used in a malicious
way, then it just doesn't do it at all.
But even if it does do it, it's inside of one sandbox that's
inside another sandbox.
And it's very, very safe.
And this is open source.
You can take this tool, Snackbox,
and you can use it in your bot, or in your website,
or whatever service you want if you
want to be able to safely evaluate Python code.
Nice.
So what are some examples, like how this gets used in Discord?
The Snackbox?
We actually only use it for the bot
so that people can evaluate code.
But that function is very valuable,
because in help sessions, sometimes our helpers,
or people who are trying to explain something,
they want to execute some code and show what the result is
to explain a concept.
So someone's stuck on, how does this work?
Well, then they can just show them with a code example,
and it evaluates it right there.
It's a very nice teaching aid, essentially.
Yeah, that's quite cool.
Nice.
Any other projects you want to highlight?
Yeah, for sure.
We try to do projects that aren't strictly just code,
as well.
For instance, in our staff, we have
some people who are involved in the DevOps side of Python
Discord.
We have a very modern DevOps architecture
using Kubernetes cluster.
Everything is set up with--
everything's its own containerized service.
And some of us are really learning
how to do advanced, I think, industry standard DevOps
by doing it here at Python Discord.
We have media projects and branding projects
with people who have graphic design skills.
They come in and help us.
They--
Oh, that's clever.
Say we have a Halloween event.
Oh, you can come in and make a spooky banner or something
that we might put somewhere, right?
Try to get people involved like that.
Now we're making a lot of YouTube content,
like the Pep8 song.
That means we need editors.
We need people who are good at animation, maybe,
people who can do sound, music, all
of these kinds of skill sets.
We try to provide an avenue for them to involve themselves.
And if you've got a unique skill set that I didn't mention
or I couldn't even think of, then
if you come and advertise to us, maybe
we'll be able to find some creative way where
we can put that to use.
Yeah, that's a really interesting way
to leverage the community, not just the core programming
skills, but the other stuff as well.
Yeah, and I think it's really essential that we
have this kind of approach.
Because I think the thing that's difficult about running
a community of volunteers is that if you run a business,
well, I can buy productivity.
I pay you.
You make me something, right?
But when I have a community of volunteers, I can't pay you.
I don't have any money to pay you with.
So the only way I can get you to do something
is to motivate you.
And there's some intrinsic motivation
in being part of something good and wholesome like this.
I think the culture helps bring people in
from an altruistic point of view.
They just want to help out.
They want to be a good force in the universe.
But ultimately, if you really want strong, directed
initiative and motivation, I think
you have to find a synergy, a sort of a thing
where your personal goals align with the goals
of the community, right?
So you want to do something for us that's good for you,
but it's also good for us.
That's the perfect way to motivate people.
So by providing as many ways as possible for people
to get involved like that, it means
that people can come in and actually build their skill set.
Maybe they make something impressive,
and they can put it on their resume.
They can go out and get a job.
And we're very good at trying to give people credit and help
people out.
I've personally been a job reference
for many of the staff members.
I've written letters of recommendation,
stuff like that, because we really want people to come in.
And if they invest themselves into our community
and invest hours of work, I want them to get something out
of it personally, because that's the best way
that I can motivate them to keep working.
Yeah.
Does it cost money?
Is it expensive to run the community, servers,
and bandwidth, and all that?
We've been lucky enough to be sponsored by everyone
we needed to be sponsored by.
So we have Linode as a sponsor.
We've got Notion providing free documentation stuff for us.
So with a bunch of different partners
we've worked with and sponsors for prices for the events,
like Adafruit.
We've worked with DigitalOcean.
JetBrains has been giving us licenses
we can give away for a long time.
Sentry is another sponsor.
They give us Sentry monitoring.
So that covers our essentials.
And we don't pay for hosting, because Linode is providing
all the hosting for free.
But we do have some expenses associated with the events.
T-shirts that's sent out as prizes, this sort of thing.
And some of that comes in via our Patreon.
I'm really happy with this animated explainer video
that we send to everyone who joins the community called
Welcome to Python Discord.
In that one, we went out and found some voice talent
to do a voiceover for us so that we could get that Kurskisakt
style voiceover.
I specifically asked the guy, can you do a Kurskisakt voice?
And he was like, yeah, I can do that.
Oh, nice.
And I'm so happy with the results.
But that's an example of where we might have
put in a little bit of money.
Not that it was super expensive.
He was very generous.
Right.
Yeah, that's cool.
But it's not super expensive.
Say, PyPI is really expensive to run
if it weren't for the sponsors and the donations, right?
Like $40,000 a month with bandwidth and stuff like that.
Yeah, no, because the majority of that bandwidth
is, I guess, Discord is paying that.
And we're not paying--
it's free to run a community on Discord
no matter how big it gets.
That's cool.
So essentially, no, it's fairly cheap to make ends meet here.
We try to put all the money that we get in straight back out
to the community as prices or in giveaways or whatever we can.
Because we're not trying to make money.
We're just trying to provide the best possible experience
that we can for our users.
Yeah, super cool.
One thing that we talked about a little bit
before we hit record that I think is interesting
is you'd mentioned how some of the infrastructure
and some of the ideas you get to apply and experiment with here
are things that you can actually bring back to your A job,
where you wouldn't get a chance to say,
oh, let's try this thing with Kubernetes
or whatever it is you're doing.
But you can try it here.
And then if it works, you're like, oh, yeah, we tried this.
Here's how it's working.
I think there's this interesting interplay
between work, work, your main professional experience,
and then these kind of more freeform places
where you have more control to do whatever you want.
Yeah, we try to encourage that kind of thing.
Now we're thinking about doing a rewriter for our API
into FastAPI.
It's currently a Django RESTful API.
And the primary motivation for that
is because one of the owners needs
to learn FastAPI for work.
That's a really good reason to do it.
And of course, it gives us an extra benefit
because it could use a rewrite.
But probably we wouldn't have done it
unless we had someone who was sort of personally motivated.
So yeah, in a way, I think especially
at the top of the executive leadership,
we try to use Python Discord as sort of a sandbox
to experiment with stuff and learn skills
that we can take with us to work.
Yeah, it gives a lot of people experience with things
that they otherwise might not get to touch.
Because that API that they work on at work,
it's been Django REST framework for five years.
And there's no reason to change it.
And they're not changing it because it works.
Don't touch it.
Yeah, exactly.
I learned Kubernetes from Python Discord myself.
And now I'm bringing it to work with me
because we don't have that kind of sophistication
there quite yet.
And that's just one example.
I've learned half of everything I know, I think,
at Python Discord.
Because of course, I'm in a unique position
of being able to do pretty much whatever I want there.
Yeah, exactly.
I think that's the secret to being on the cutting edge
is you find these places where you can try things out.
And then you have that experience
maybe to bring back to more conservative type
of environments.
I think that this kind of way of using the community
has been mostly available to the owners
up until we grew to this size.
And now I'm trying to expand that to the rest of the staff
and anyone who wants to get involved.
Please, come and use us as a way for you
to learn that next thing that you're
thinking about learning.
Maybe we can provide you an opportunity to--
and you're really looking to get into making
great sounding audio.
Maybe we have an opportunity for you to hone
your craft and practice.
Yeah, yeah, very cool.
All right, well, I think that's about it for the time
that we have to talk about Python Discord.
But congratulations on such a cool community, you
and everyone else.
I know it isn't just you.
You're the figurehead for the community, right?
Maybe, in a way, because I have a freakishly large beard.
And there's a small cult of personality
around my lemon nickname.
We have a whole set of emojis with lemons.
Oh, nice.
So it's sort of-- but yeah, I don't know.
We have a lot of really notable members of the community
once you get to know them.
It's so many great people involved.
So it's just a wonderful place to be.
Yeah, fantastic.
All right, final two questions before I let you out of here.
Yes.
If you're going to write some Python code,
what editor are you using these days?
So I use PyCharm.
And I use a little bit of VS Code on the side
when I need to do something really simple
or whenever I want to do this code collab thing.
So PyCharm has code with me.
And there's the live sync thing on VS Code
where you can actually live collaborate on files.
I've been getting into that.
It's really cool to work two people live editing
some code together.
And PyCharm's been really good to me from day one.
I just really fell in love with it
since I started using it.
It has so many features that I need, especially
as a full stack developer who is into a lot of web stuff.
And I work on JavaScript and HTML.
And I interact with databases a lot.
So once you're thinking about writing--
PyCharm has native support for Django and Flask
and can really make sense of a lot of these files
in ways that the other editors would need plugins and stuff
to do.
It just gets so much out of the box.
100% agree with you.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Very, very cool one.
All right, and then notable PyPI packages.
What do you want to give a shout out to there?
Well, we've mentioned a couple of the stuff
that we've made here at Python Discord.
I want to also mention that--
so maybe that's a little narcissistic of me
to talk about my own packages when you ask me this.
It's all right.
There's a lot of packages I really love out there.
But you may not have heard of stuff like we have async Redis
cache, which is this--
we found out that working with Redis from an asynchronous
context can be a little complicated sometimes.
So we made this PyPI package that
makes it extremely trivial to work with Redis from,
for instance, a Discord bot.
That's where we use it.
So that if all you need to do is just cache some data in Redis
so that you can access it later and use it as a cache,
the way most people do, this is a godsend
for working with it in an asynchronous way.
Then I also have a personal project
that I've been working on a lot lately called Blackbox.
And it's in reference to the black box inside of a plane.
So the idea is if there's a disaster,
you get the black box and it has the stuff
that you need to figure out what happened and get back on track.
And so Blackbox is a backup system.
It's designed to be extremely easy to work with,
like abstract away all the painful stuff.
And it's also designed to be really easy to contribute to.
I've been working on trying to make
the most contributor-friendly thing I can do.
Big fat read me.
Everything's like abstract classes.
So if you want to contribute, you usually only
have to touch a single file to write a single interface,
basically, for the thing.
So what it does is you make a config file.
You put connection strings into that config file.
So say you want to do a backup of Postgres.
Well, you write a single string that's like Postgres,
colon, slash, slash, the username, the password.
And then you put that in there.
And now it knows how to talk to Postgres.
It does all of that stuff for you.
So now you've told it a couple of databases,
say Postgres, Redis, MongoDB, whatever you've got.
Then you tell it, where do you want to store that backup?
Maybe you want to store it in an S3.
Maybe you want to store it on Dropbox or something free
like that.
Well, then you just put in another connection string
that describes how to talk to that service.
And then lastly, maybe you want to be let know when
that backup has been done.
So then you can put in a Slack or a Discord connection string.
And it'll send you a message and say, ah, I'm done with my backup.
So the goal is for people to just install it off of PyPI.
And they can put it in a cron job or run it manually.
And it'll just do the backup, store it somewhere in the cloud,
and let you know when it's done.
I love it.
That's really cool.
And looks like something maybe I could even make use of.
I mean, I've got MongoDB, and I have backups for it.
But this sort of fully automatic stuff would be cool.
I've already got a Slack channel where I get notifications
for deploys and whatnot.
It could just throw in, hey, we did a backup next to that.
Well, it's really easy to get started with.
So some people have expensive, paid backup services.
And they'll obviously be much better.
Like saving a complete snapshot of the entire database server
is going to be better than this.
But if you're just looking for something quick and easy,
maybe you just want to store it in Dropbox or something,
this is a great way to have off-site backups for free.
And you can set it up in 10 minutes.
Very cool.
All right, well, that's quite neat, though.
Thanks for letting us know about that one.
Yeah.
All right, well, the live chat is blowing up with lemons.
[LAUGHTER]
And bot commands about your beard and things like that.
So thanks, everyone.
But mostly just appreciation from the community,
I think, so very cool.
So final call to action, people are
interested in being part of your community.
What do they do?
Right.
So they can go to pythondiscord.com or .org.
And from there, you get all the information
you need in order to join us.
There's also just discord.gg/python.
That's us.
Or you can even find it in the Python subreddit.
So once you get into the community,
you just ask around, and we'll help
you get started with whatever it is you want.
You need help.
There's help channels to ask.
And you join an event.
There's lots of cool stuff going to happen
in the next couple of months.
Get involved in PyWeek.
It's really fun.
You write a game.
Get involved in the Code Jam.
It's a unique experience.
And yeah, just come hang out with us.
It's really-- it's a lovely place.
That's cool.
It sounds like some of these programming examples
and opportunities might be more low-key, more silly and fun
rather than forms over data.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Yeah, cool.
All right, well, thanks for coming on and sharing
what you guys are up to over there.
And it's been great to chat with you.
Oh, it's been my pleasure.
Yeah, see you later.
All right, bye, Michael.
www.mooji.org